In this lesson you will learn how
to prepare data for analysis.
After this video, you will be able
to articulate the importance of data
preparation, define the objectives
of data preparation, and
list some activities in preparing data.
The raw data that you get directly from
your sources is rarely in the format
that you can use to perform analysis on.
The goal of data preparation is to create
the data that will be used for analysis.
This means cleaning the data, and putting
the data in the right format for analysis.
The latter generally involves selecting
the appropriate features to use and
transforming the data as needed.
The data that you've acquired
will likely have many problems.
An important part of data preparation is
to clean the data that you have to work
with to address what are referred
to as data quality issues.
There are many types of
data quality issues,
including missing values, duplicate data,
inconsistent or invalid data,
noise, and outliers.
The problems listed here can negatively
affect the quality of the data and
compromise the analysis process and
results.
So it is very important to detect and
address these data quality issues.
Some techniques to address data quality
issues include removing data records
with missing values,
merging duplicate records,
generating a best, or at most reasonable,
estimate for invalid values.
We will discuss these techniques in
more detail in the next lecture.
Since the goal of the step of data
preparation is cleaning the data,
it is referred to as Data Cleaning or
Data Cleansing.
After the data has been cleaned,
another goal of data preparation is to
get the data into the format needed for
the analysis.
This step is referred to by many names,
Data Munching, Data Wrangling and
Data Preprocessing.
The two broad categories of data
wrangling are feature selection and
feature transformation.
Feature selection involves
deciding on which features
to use from the existing
ones available in your data.
Features can be removed,
added or combined.
Feature transformation involves
changing the format of the data
in some way to reduce noise or variability
or make the data easier to analyze.
Two common feature transformations
are scaling the data so
that all features have the same value
range and reducing the dimensionality,
which is effectively the number
of features of the data.
We will discuss these techniques
later in this lesson.
Data preparation is a very important
part of the machine learning process.
It can be a tedious process,
but it is a crucial step.
If you do not spend the time and
effort to create good data for
the analysis,
you will not get good results,
no matter how sophisticated the analysis
technique you are using is.
Always remember, garbage in, garbage out.
So take the time to prepare your data
if you want good analysis results.